# IR_project

## Project Description

This is a project for the Information Retrieval course at the University of Antwerp. 

It focuses on **Related Documents Retrieval**: Implement a retrieval system that retrieves related documents to a given document 
eg. news articles about the same event as a given news item, or academic papers on the same subject as a given paper. 

Implementation is in Python and the project is structured as follows:

Project root:
- **input**: contains the dataset and the ground-truth labels, a correction of the dataset will also be stored here.
- **output**: contains the output of the system which includes the pre-processed documents and the tfidf_matrix.
- **src**: contains the source code of the project.
  - **main.py**: the main file of the project, this is where the gui is run from.
  - **gui.py**: the gui of the project, this is where the user can interact with the system.
  - **data_preprocessor.py**: the data preprocessor of the project, this is where the data is pre-processed.
  - **related_doc_retrieval.py**: the related document retrieval system of the project, this is where the related documents are retrieved.
  - **test.py**: the test file of the project, this is where the system is using diverse metrics against the ground truth labels.
  - **utils.py**: the utils file of the project, this is where some useful utility functions are stored.
  - **variables.py**: the variables file of the project, this is where the filepaths are stored.
- **requirements.txt**: the requirements file of the project, this is where the required packages are stored.

Dataset sources:

The video game dataset and it’s ground-truth labels.

https://zenodo.org/records/4812962##.YK8zqqgzaUk (dataset)
https://github.com/microsoft/SDR/blob/main/data/datasets/video_games/gt (ground-truth labels)

## Installation
### Requirements
To install the project, clone the repository and install the requirements:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### Tkinter
https://www.pythonguis.com/installation/install-tkinter-linux/



## Usage

To run the project, run the main.py file:

```bash
cd src
python main.py
```

This will run the GUI.

In the GUI, you can choose between title or query. 
If you decide to find similar games by title, 
you will have to select the title from the dropdown. 
If you decide to choose query, you can type the text of 
your choice such as keywords, and it will find games related to this text. 
The GUI also allows you to set the number of results to a certain value, 
for when you want to return more or less results. This is a top-K system 
where the K most similar games are returned. There are two output windows. 
The first one shows the top-K relevant documents (in this case games) and 
the second one shows the metrics, relevant to this search. 
Metrics are generated by using the ground-truth labels. 
Because of this, metrics can only be shown if you find relevant documents by title.

## Literature

Document Similarity in Information Retrieval:
https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse573/12sp/lectures/17-ir.pdf
		
Similar document search with OpenSearch:
https://opensearch.org/blog/similar-document-search/ 

Efficient Algorithms for Document Retrieval Problems 
https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/document?repid=rep1&type=pdf&doi=ac686bc0080f63047eda82480edc6626586b83ab 
